---
layout: post
topic: Programming
title: First post! The Udacity C++ Nanodegree
---

I graduated from the Udacity C++ Nanodegree program today and I feel very good about what I accomplished over the past four months. Prior to this class my programming experiance was mainly python and at the intermediate level. 

Meaning I had a firm grasp on computer science fundamentals and understood the main principles behind object oriented programming. However I still did not know much about the difference between dynamically scripted languages such as python and compiled languages like C++. I also did not know much about algorithms and how they are structured to produce useful output stemming from basic data input.

This program requried me to really put my exisiting programming knowlege (python) to work and extend it to the vast capabilities that C++ has to offer. The first few sections of the course were very straight forward and mainly about getting the C++ syntax correct. I had to exercise these skills through a series of simple jupiter notebooks and eventually work on a large project called the OSM route planner. This project requried me to use the open street maps library in addition the A* search alogrithm to compute and display the shortest traversable path between two nodes on a map. Some of the code strucutre for this project was established by the udacity instructors however this aspect made it a little more challenging. Challenging because their predefined code base forced me to think about the problem how they thought about the problem by tailoring my applied code to their thought process. I am glad it was setup like this because it resembles a very realistic scenario in industry where a majority of the code a software engineer works on is something that was intitally created by a predacessor. 

 Here is a screenshot of the open street map proejct below: